---
layout: post
title: An Unnecessary Woman 
date: 2016-06-26
category: books
---
The word "necessary" is brutal. We all know what happens to unnecessary things, they are ended. Are translations necessary? Are critics necessary? If we argue that art is necessary for a full life, isn't that need filled when a work of art is created? Are the derivatives of art, like criticism and translation, necessary? (I'll stop with the annoying rhetorical questions now)<br/><br/>In naming this book "An Unnecessary Woman", Rabih Alameddine gives the reader a provocation. Thankfully, throughout this book, he does the reader a service by engaging with that provocation and illuminating a thoughtful answer. Yes, translation and criticism are a necessary part of art and life. Aaliya, the protagonist and singular voice of this book, is funny, warm, sharp, wise, acerbic, well-read, well-spoken and alone. Rabih, through Aaliya, builds a fluid novel void of traditional structure and plotting that shows the importance of literature, critical thinking, intellectual engagement, independent thought and building a good life for yourself.<br/><br/>The novel ends with some calls to emotion which worked for me. However, I enjoyed much more the first 7/8 of this book. It felt like a safari through the mind of a character I had never known but immediately loved and trusted.<br/><br/>In an interview around the time of publication, Alameddine said something to the effect of "the problem, right now, is that we define who is necessary by society's standards. A lawyer is more necessary than a garbage collector. A doctor more necessary than a bartender. But the truth is, what makes something necessary is how much commitment one has to the life they are living." I find this a beautiful, and (forgive me) necessary, sentiment for our times.
