---
layout: post
title: If Then
date: 2020-12-30
category: books
---

Lepore is a prolific and impressive historian. She is the rare, Krugman type, of academic who can both succeed in her professional circles and as a mainstream writer. Her byline is a never-miss in The New Yorker. Her podcast is a must, too. And this, her latest book, focused on "Simulmatics" (which she also excerpted in <a href="https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2020/08/03/how-the-simulmatics-corporation-invented-the-future">TNY</a>) as the canary in the Big Date coal mine. 

I'm an analytics professional in politics and media. Much of this history was new to me. Many of the quotes from the 1960s sound like things I've heard modern-day politicos and data journalists say. As the epilogue notes, these fields are still maturing and coming up with their own rules, aesthetics and ethics. Putting them in context, describing what they replaced, evaluating their limits. We also cannot under count that these practices (modern data science in particular) blossomed in the era of post 1980s unconstrained capitalism and 2000s tech-utopianism, which gave them the permission to or maybe even necessarily made them define themselves so expansively. A tool like data science doesn't have to be seen as a replace-all for every other tool to understand humanity. But when you layer on the pressures of venture capitalism, winner-take-all economic and political systems, undue deference to STEM professionals, and so on, the outcome starts to make sense.

Somewhere along the way in the last few years of my career, I came across this phrase: "the tyranny of a single metric." Over time, I've come to use it as a guiding principle when applying data science to any question. "I follow the data" or "let the data speak for itself" are useless and even dangerous maxims. We need data science practices and professionals who can properly articulate a problem, create measures and metrics that strive for holism and balance, and can properly caveat their findings and recommendations. Whether we want to apply more data science to solve the problem of data science, or apply less of it in favor of something else, is a debate for corporations, campaigns, and society to have together. 