---
layout: post
title: Paterson 
date: 2016-01-05
category: movies
---
 
[LetterboxD review link](http://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/paterson/)

I missed <em>Paterson</em> at the NY Film Festival earlier this year. I saw Jarmusch's Iggy Pop documentary, and his Q&A with Iggy was fun to witness (Iggy even makes a small appearance in this film). Much like <a href="http://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/gimme-danger/">Gimme Danger</a>, which talked a lot about Detroit's role in the band's formation, <em>Paterson</em> is interested in what might be so special about Paterson, NJ that it has produced a handful of American folk heroes. I found that, otherwise minor, plot line sort of interesting. 

The most important reason, however, to go see this film is to get a sense of the meditative feeling, the calm and contentment that exists deep within its protagonist. Jarmusch has created a character, like Casey Affleck's Lee in <a href="http://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/manchester-by-the-sea/">Manchester by the Sea</a>, who his quiet, contemplative, but instead of being defined by grief, he is defined by generosity of spirit and an artistic soul. I know far more Patersons from my small-town upbringing than I know Lees. 

By keeping the scale and ambition of this film contained, Jarmusch succeeds in bringing emotional weight to an otherwise small, mundane, climax scene. The final sequence, then, is a wonderful way to wrap up the film. 

I should also briefly mention how well Jarmusch captures the art of writing and re-writing. Seeing poems take shape over the course of the film was a rewarding experience in and of itself. 