---
layout: post
title: 2017-02-11 
date: Julieta
category: movies
---
 
[LetterboxD review link](https://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/julieta/)

The color theory in this movie deserves a whole essay on its own. I haven't quite come to a full idea of what Julieta's blues and reds mean. I know the absence of color, though, as in her new apartment are emblematic. I know that her red car when she's going to get Antía from her retreat mean something. I know her blue car when she's going to meet her at the end of the film means something. Perhaps the same as her blue sweater on the train. Perhaps different from her red dress at the beginning. Or from Xoan's red checkered shirt the morning of the storm. And different from his blue checkered shirt when he comes home to find Julieta in his home. I would spend a subsequent screening noting and paying attention to these reds and blues.

The other major line of thought, that popped out for me, was the role of guilt in relationships. And guilt as a guiding emotion for women. It could be argued that the men in this movie should feel guilt a lot more than any of the women. And yet, they live their lives care free. Spending little time worrying about their sick wives. Moving on to new lovers without recourse. 

And yet the women, especially Julieta, are caught up in cycles of guilt and redemption. From the men in their lives. And from the women too. Guilt, as Julieta says about a related topic, is an addictive emotion, it seems. And it only takes an addict one taste to relapse and lose herself. 