---
layout: post
title: Parasite
date: 2019-10-27
category: movies
---
 
[LetterboxD review link](https://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/parasite-2019/)

I have too many thoughts on this film for a regular review. So here are some in no specific order. I LOVE THIS FILM!

1. Alphonso Cuaron: here's my paean to domestic workers, especially those who raised me.
Bong Joon Ho: hold my beer

2. Bong's tonal management is incredible. I'm a frog. This film is a pot of boiling water. And Bong is standing in front of the stove with his hand on the knob.

3. A few critiques I've seen have complained that this film is "too on the nose," but I don't recall seeing any similar critiques of <em><a href="https://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/shoplifters/">Shoplifters</a></em> last year which had some similar critiques about poverty and society. I think, in part, this has to do with the fact that Bong lets no one off the hook. Every viewer is complicit in the critique he's making because, well, if you can afford to watch a movie like this you're probably benefitting from the society Bong is critiquing. <em>Shoplifters</em>, on the other hand, is a bit more anodyne in its critique. Bellicose Bong pulls no punches.

4. The doorway shot near the end, where son and father hug amidst the door frame, rather than on one side or another, was a great update on the <a href="http://www.svnfilm.com/production/directing-casting-locations/272-the-doorway-shot.html">doorway trope</a>, like from <em>The Searchers</em>

5. Bong made a home invasion movie, a family tragicomedy, a con movie, a social satire, and sprinkled in some real show-offy scenes with phones (no director can, in my opinion, say "phones have ruined our ability to create drama" anymore), floods and set pieces, and he did all of it so well. 

6. This film lays bare the complete lie of "meritocracy": the hardest working and most talented people in this film are not the richest and most rewarded. 

7. One of the central metaphors in the film, smell and disgust, is used so powerfully. Paired with the <a href="https://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674031555">social science literature</a> on the topic, the film does a fantastic job complicating and broadening its critique. And laying it at the feet of all of society. There's no easy answer. But knowing, for example, the role that something like "disgust" plays in how we shape society, might help us reshape and better it.