---
layout: post
title: Ad Astra
date: 2019-12-19
category: movies
---
 
[LetterboxD review link](https://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/ad-astra-2019/)

I went to the barber shop the day after watching <em>Ad Astra</em>. While waiting for my barber, a father and son (probably 7 or 8 years old) walked in for a haircut. As they were settling in, the father moved a chair over, blocking the entrance. The person manning the reception said, "sir, you can't block that door." The father snapped back at him, "I don't like your fucking tone. I'm in here spending $50 on a haircut. Why don't you try asking again, nicely!" The receptionist asked again, adding please, and the father moved the chair. 

The whole time, I was watching his son. And he didn't seem to find the interaction abnormal at all. Maybe his father behaves like this all the time. With strangers. With his family. Maybe his son has built a tolerance to these outbursts. I found that astonishing. It is something I still have a hard time with as an adult, thinking back to my father's behavior when I was growing up.

If Brad Pitt is a superhero in this movie, his superpower is that he can control his reactions to stressors in the world. He doesn't get anxious. He controls his heart rate. Growing up in the shadow of a father like Tommy Lee Jones's character can have lasting effects. And this movie is about the journey that children of these kinds of fathers go through. At first diving deep into their father's psyches to understand them, to tell a story that rationalizes why life works the way it does. And then to extricate themselves from these fathers. And become different kinds of men or women themselves. It's a Biblical tale, a Greek tale, a Shakespearean tale, a Knausgardian tale. But it is no less urgent today than ever before. I don't know if James Gray adds too much more in the way of complexity of understanding with this film. But I appreciated his telling of his version of this tale none the less. 

I don't know what that father and son are like outside of those five minute I observed them at the barber shop. But I have a feeling that I know exactly what that young boy's teenage and 20s will be like. They will be spent dealing with the lasting ramifications of having the father he has.