---
layout: post
title: Honey Boy
date: 2020-02-17
category: movies
---
 
[LetterboxD review link](https://letterboxd.com/samarthbhaskar/film/honey-boy/)

Every year there are a few movies that don't get any or enough award recognition but outlast, in impact and memory, many of the films that are the focus of awards talk. <em>Honey Boy</em> will be a film like that from 2019. It's an incredible feat of writing and acting. The whole thing is a gut punch but the scene where young Otis is translating a fight between his father and mother over the phone, in particular, was brutal for me. Lucas Hedges is also masterful at capturing LaBeouf's mannerisms and tics while creating a full character and not just an impersonation on screen. 

About three-quarter of the way through this film, there's a scene when a counselor recommends that Otis go out to the woods and let out a scream. After Otis tries this, he comes back and admits to the counselor that it was very helpful, one of the first things that has helped. For all the cerebral and emotional content of this movie, there's also something commendably physical about it. We're trapped in our bodies. And our bodies are as much part of our emotional journey as our minds and souls. 

<em>Honey Boy's</em> biggest achievement, to me, is that it found a compelling way to explore the trauma that every person in the story suffers. And a compelling way to depict a primal, biological instict: to love your family. Otis wanted his father around despite every reason to not have him around. And this film, painstakingly helps you understand why.

(Also, <em>Ad Astra</em> please see this film to find something new to say about father-son issues.)