---
layout: post
title: Response to "What ISIS really wants"
---
The Atlantic had a cover story last month, which now looks to be deprecated. But here's a [cached version](http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.theatlantic.com/features/archive/2015/02/what-isis-really-wants/384980/). The story was about ISIS and its religious underpinnings. My friend Arjun and I discussed it over email last night and I wanted to share some of my thoughts here. I've pasted my email to him below:


* The Princeton professor is a cool guy. If I remember correctly, he came to UIUC when I was studying Arabic/Middle Eastern studies and I enjoyed hearing him talk. There was a dude at UIUC who was very similar to him. Secular authority on Islam and Islamic history. The UIUC guy, Khalil, had some interesting things to say - he felt like he had to change the course of his research and scholarship to be more radicalism focused in order to compete for tenure track jobs. I think he was much more interested in other things about the Muslim world, but so it goes, I guess.
* I think the author if this Atlantic piece did a pretty good job explaining major tenets of Islam. I was glad to see he differentiated (with some help from Haykel) between Islam and Muslims.
* As he mentioned, the slow and protracted decline of ISIS is most likely what will happen, but what I’m interested in is what a future Islamic state looks like. Saudi has lost favor as the one true Islamic nation. Iran doesn’t get counted because is Shia. But I’m curious if there will be a future state that’ll be the Muslim equivalent of Israel. Israel was founded on very similar grounds. Zionism espouses some of the same tenets as al-Baghdadi’s Salafism. But Zionism, at least in its most severe form, turned out to be untenable (politically, economically, etc) for Israel, so they went down a more moderate road. [^1] Certainly they had the US’s backing, which helped them survive. I wonder if ISIS will find some sort of moderate version of itself too.
* One thing that I thought was missing from this article was a sense of scale. In fact, that’s something I’ve had a hard time grasping anywhere. I don’t know if we’re talking about 500K citizens, a million, 10M? Talking to some strong advocates can have the unintended effect of making the movement seem a lot bigger in scale than it is. But again, I know they control a huge [swathe](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/06/12/world/middleeast/the-iraq-isis-conflict-in-maps-photos-and-video.html?_r=0&pagewanted=all) of territory between Syria and Iraq but I don’t know how many people we’re talking about. Part of me thinks that there’s some natural ceiling that they’ll hit, after which they’ll have to start becoming more moderate. Because creating social services, a viable economy, etc for a group of thousands is very different than doing that for hundreds of thousands.
* Dave Chappelle had a really funny joke about ISIS/radical Islam on Monday night when I saw him. He was like “ISIS is like the Tupac of religions. It’s like “YO WHAT, I GO SO HARD MOTHERF**. COME AT ME.” It’s hard to convey over email, but he captured the sentiment really well. And like Tupac, at least younger Tupac, that level of bravado is something that goes away with age. Maybe ISIS will mature out of this stage. Unfortunately their “immaturity” manifests in severed heads, slaves, beaten women, etc.
* The author’s description of his conversations with the English and Australian extremists was really interesting. When people betray a strong confidence, have an answer to everything and can convince you, I find that really fascinating. I’m not that confident about anything in my life. I almost envy it. They’ve bought into it wholesale. Muslim communities in the US and elsewhere are having a hard time counteracting online recruitment of young men and women. It’s hard to come back to “we have a strong and principled view about everything” with “well, things are complicated.” It’s not as convincing an argument.


[^1]: that’s probably one of the only times you’ll hear me describe Israel as moderate.